There are several ways available to communicate with other people in this mud, called channels. The following channels are available:

chat: allows you to chat with all other people in this mud.
You can use the chat command (or .) to write a message.
Example: chat hi

talk: allows you to talk to all other people with the same language setting.
You can use the talk command to do so.
Example: talk this is a test.

say: the say channel can be used whenever you are in a duel (either as a competitor or as a watcher). The said text will only be shown for the people within this duel.
You can use the say (or ') command to say something.
Example: say test

tag: the tag channel can be used to talk to your team mate within a tag duel.
You can use the tag command to do so.
Example: tag test

tell: the tell command allows you to talk to another person privately.
You can use the tell command, followed by the person's name, to do so.
Example: tell tsp hello, how are you?

reply: the reply command is used to answer to the last incoming tell that reached you.
Example: reply thanks, how about you?

challenge: the challenge channel is somewhat special, as noone can write on it. It instead publishes all duel-related information to all listening players

watch: the watch channel informs about players watching a certain duel. Noone can write on it manually.
The command watchers can however be used to list all watching players while in a duel.

All channels do have a history which can be checked to see the previous messages. This can be achieved by suffixing the channel command with the history command. The only exception is the watch channel.
Example: chathistory, talkhistory, tellhistory etc.
The history commands accept a parameter which defines the amount of messages you want to see.
Example: chathistory 10 to see the last 10 chat messages.

All channels can be turned on and off as well by simply writing the name of the channel.
Example: chat, say, talk etc.
The only exception here is tell.

Tell however can be influenced by the ignore command. Ignore allows you to ignore specific players, thus you won't receive messages from them on neither channel.
Example: ignore toni
The same command used again will remove the player from the ignore list.